---
title: "Plasma assisted deflagration to detonation transition in a microscale channel"
permalink: /project/DDT/
excerpt: "Provide guidance to control DDT in advanced detonation engines and fire safety of hydrogen-fueled catalytic reactors in microchannels by non-equilibrium plasma discharge"
teaser: /images/projects/nh3-thumb.jpg
header:
  overlay_image: /images/projects/nh3-hero.jpg
tags: [ammonia, ignition, plasma]
---
This work numerically studies the plasma assisted deflagration to detonation transition (DDT) of H2/O2 mixtures in a microscale channel with detailed chemistry and transport. 
The results show that the DDT onset time is non-monotonically dependent on the discharge pulse number. The DDT is accelerated with small pulse numbers, whereas retarded with large ones. Two different DDT regimes, respectively at a small and large plasma discharge number, via acoustic choking of the burned gas and plasma-enhanced reactivity gradient without acoustic choking, are observed.  Without plasma discharge, pronounced pressure and temperature gradients in front of the flame are generated by acoustic compression after the choking of the burned gas, triggering DDT via autoignition. With small plasma pulse numbers, the plasma-generated species enhance the ignition kinetics and lead to an increased reactivity in the boundary layer. After the choking of the burned gas, the plasma-enhanced reactivity advances the sequence of autoignition near the wall, strengthens ignition-shock wave coupling, and accelerates DDT. However, with a large discharge pulse number, a direct autoignition initiating DDT can occur without the acoustic choking of the burned gas due to the strongly accelerated reactivity and elevated temperature. In this case, DDT onset is retarded due to the reduction of chemical heat release rate by excessive plasma assisted fuel oxidation. The present modeling reveals that no matter with or without plasma discharge, DDT is initiated by autoignition in thermal, pressure, and reactivity gradient fields via Zel’dovich gradient mechanism. The acoustic choking of the burned gas may not be the necessary condition of DDT with strong plasma-enhanced reactivity gradient. This work provides an answer to the experimentally observed non-monotonic DDT onset time by plasma, which provides guidance to control DDT in advanced detonation engines and fire safety of hydrogen-fueled catalytic reactors in microchannels by non-equilibrium plasma discharge.
